1. What did the Tribunal, in Maserow v Real Estate Agents Authority (CAC 404) [2016] NZREADT 19 (24 February 2016), say in relation to obligations laid down by section 36(2A) of the Lawyers and Conveyancers Act 2006?

2. What did the Tribunal, in Maserow v Real Estate Agents Authority (CAC 404) [2016] NZREADT 19 (24 February 2016), say supervision must ‘be’ and ‘include’?

3. What did the Tribunal, in Maserow v Real Estate Agents Authority (CAC 404) [2016] NZREADT 19 (24 February 2016), say the branch manager in the case should have done regarding the problem with clause 19?

4. In case C10557, the CAC found that the agency’s advice to present a verbal offer on behalf of the complainant with the intention of avoiding a multi-offer situation was not adequate and not fair to all parties.

What process should the agency have ensured was followed in this case?

5. In case C10557, what arrangement in place at the agency did the CAC say was ‘not effective’ and ‘misleading or potentially misleading to clients and customers’?

6. What improvements to supervision practices / agency processes would you suggest that could have helped to avoid the complaint that arose in this situation?  Describe at least four improvements.

7. What improvements to supervision practices / agency processes would you suggest that could have helped to avoid the complaint that arose in this situation?  Describe at least three improvements.

8. What is described as ‘not enough’ to discharge supervision obligations under section 50?

9. What needs to be evident to show compliance with supervision obligations under section 50?


--
Multi:
10. Only a licensed agent or licensed branch manager may act as a supervisor in accordance with Section 50(1) of the Act Real Estate Agents Act.

11 An agent who is a company would not be liable for the acts and omissions of a salesperson engaged as an independent contractor, should issues arise.

12. The purpose of the principles based Professional Standard on Supervision is to prescribe specific expectations and obligations.

--
13. Give two examples of tasks that a line manager, rather than a licensed agent or branch manager, may carry out without compromising the supervisor responsibility.

14. Give four examples of what a supervisor being actively and regularly involved with a salespersons’ activities might entail.
--

Multi:
15. New salespersons with less than six months’ real estate agency experience are prohibited from preparing sale and purchase agreements or advising clients or customers about their legal rights and obligations in relation to such contracts.

16. A new salesperson must be advised that when dealing with a party who expresses an interest in making a formal offer, they must immediately refer the matter to their supervising agent or branch manager.
--
17. Give three examples of factors that may affect a supervisor’s ability to exercise sufficient direction and control when supervising through ‘remote’ or ‘at distance’ supervision.  

18. Give three examples of factors that may affect how many salespersons a supervisor can properly supervise.